the idea behind it is to put people into
a simulation basically pretending to be
on Mars and doing all the activities
associated you guys can make anything
happen yeah this idea of isolation is it
as devastating as these psychological
dramas would have us think it's both
incredibly isolating at times and also
an opportunity to get closer to people
what about movie night what do you do
for entertainment we had a really big
movie selection and we watched I don't
even know how many of them there were
but we watched like it seemed like every
Marvel movie we actually had a checklist
that we went off sounds like the
nerdiest heist crew ever there were
significant levels of nerd I can't
lie this is Star Talk Neil de grass
Tyson here your personal astrophysicist
of course I'm here with Chuck KN Chuck
baby hey what's happening all right very
nice very good uh you've been been doing
all right I you know I'm actually I've
been doing very well yeah this has been
a great time the past few months have
been thank you for asking no no good I'm
very I'm very happy right now we got to
keep our comedians happy well because
that's that's that's an oxy right
there happy
comedian that's kind of the job of
everybody we got to make sure you you
can you you're ready for the gigs right
so you know what we're going to talk
about today mhm what simulating Mars oh
my goodness well we're supposedly get
get your
ass you know we're supposedly going
there at some point so we should
simulate it
we figure out what we're going to be in
for figure that out I have no expertise
whatsoever in this okay so we found
Commander Kelly hon Kelly welcome to
Star
Talk hi it's nice to be here yeah so
you're you're commander of what so I was
the commander of the first of three
simulated Mars missions with NASA right
so even though you didn't fly through
the vacuum of space they still got to
call you Commander because the whole
mission was simulated yes yes I know how
lucky is that I was going to say does
that make you a simulat
commander yes yes I'm I'm an analog
Commander analog analog okay very you
have a PhD in biomed Sciences that's
exactly the kind you know that's who you
want that's yeah that's in a Mars
habitat that's very markwat of you but
they didn't leave her for dead on
Mars and she still on Earth it's a good
simulation
too so we're talking about NASA's chapia
Mission did I pronounce that correctly
yes yes chapia this is reads like one of
those tortured acronyms but take me
through it so chapia and I I will uh
it's it's a crew um health and uh it's
it's basically going to evaluate the
health and performance of a crew in a
one-year Mars uh Mission so B the the
the idea behind it is to put people into
a simulation where you can actually test
how the isolation and resource
restriction including food communication
water all sorts of things that you any
kind of resource that you can imagine
that you would need on amar's mission is
actually in limit limited amounts um and
you have three four people actually
basically pretending to be on Mars and
doing all the activities associated with
uh keeping a habitat functioning and
doing science while they are actually on
a mission now you know in other parts of
the military we call that enhanced
interrogation no no no you know what it
is it's a test to see if they'll kill
each other right that's all it is that's
that's a great reality show they have to
yes that is a great reality show but
they have to leave their weapons outside
I think maybe so chapia I have here crew
health and performance
exploration analog wow okay yeah and it
sounds like something you would put in
yogurt like I'm so healthy I put so much
Chapa in my
yogurt so so where did this take place
it took place in h a hanger on Johnson
Space Center in a 3D printed habitat wow
so this is in Johnson Space Center in
Houston in Houston Texas that's right
yeah yeah so it was 3D printed to
simulate maybe what you would do on Mars
you have to print up anything you need
yeah you can't carry it there right you
can't carry it and you need to use the
materials that are possibly present so
obviously regolith which is those you
know a soil that is going to be on the
Martian surface is a potential substrate
that you could use to actually print
something um other options of course are
but just just to be clear regolith when
we think we we Loosely say Martian soils
but soil has a very strict meaning on
Earth which Mars does not have so what's
the difference between soil and regolith
well there's going to be mineral content
differences so Mars is actually made up
of the same minerals as the Earth but it
has different components different
proportions so you're going to have
different proportions of minerals
present you're also going to have a lack
of moisture because Mars is does have
some water in the ice caps and
potentially underground which is pretty
exciting but it does not actually have
water content easily available on the
surface the way our soil would have you
know water content so therefore it
doesn't support a biota in the soil
itself correct okay so that's why Mark
Watney had to get uh he made poop
potatoes right yeah he couldn't just
grow it in the the soils because isn't
isn't a lot of the soil iron what do you
do with that well you can't do a lot
with it other than actually build a
habitat so you can actually potentially
use it to uh create a habitat that might
actually be both uh protective in from
environments and also potentially
protective from radiation as well so
that's something construction material
that's great yeah exactly yeah how long
were you there we were there for 378
days damn oh that is that's intense whoa
yeah now who do you hate most let's be
honest cuz you know it's like day three
and you're just like oh my God this
dude's an
aole so there's four of you who who are
the other three you you can name them
yeah sure so we had flight engineer Ross
Brockwell who is a structural engineer
those we had yeah and we had our medical
officer uh Nathan
Jones an ER doc so so really versed in
emergency medicine and then we had our
Science office officer Ana salario who
is actually a microbiologist who works
for the Navy right now wow all right so
this this is and and and combined with
your background right but you guys can
make anything happen yeah sounds like
the nerdiest heist crew ever it's like a
heist movie with with the nerdiest crew
ever which is awesome there was there
was significant levels of nerd I can't
lie yeah no that's that nerds know how
to hang out we love that so uh before we
get into some of the nitty-gritty of
this uh I'm big fan of the of The
Twilight Zone Series going back to the
late 1950s actually the original the
original the original the original and
not the not the uh uh Jordan Peele
version well maybe I haven't seen it yet
I can't comment yeah you don't like it
okay okay fine I'm sorry so that if we
remember was the dawn of the space age
right right and many of the episodes
were made before anyone had been yet
launched into space but we knew it was
coming and there multiple episodes of
astronauts that are just alone in space
and they're exploring the psychological
damage that can bring from being away
from other humans right and it wasn't
until I was older that I realized you
know there's long stretches of time I
don't want to be around anybody oh yes
and I'm a sociable person so clearly
they're like Hermits out there where
this would not be an issue at all right
and fathers and and NASA's always
yapping at you anyway all right so so
this idea of isolation is it as
devastating as these psychological
dramas would have us think you know one
of the questions that comes up is is how
how isolating is it truly to be on a
mission like this um or how isolating
will it be that's what it's testing
right how are people going to handle
this um and I will say that it's both
incredibly isolating at times and also
an opportunity to get closer to people
and so amazingly I feel like actually
many of my relationships deepened during
this period um because there was less so
so first of all NASA does speak to us
all the time there was a significant
delay
they well well the good news is they
could only type because there was a time
delay of uh significant time delay
across the mission based on how far Mars
was from Earth during the whole mission
up to 22 minutes one way so at the
height of our time delay it took 22
minutes for a message to get to us and
22 minutes for us to send an answer back
or vice versa this is the T delay of
radio waves moving through the vacuum of
space right right so there no witty
reparte with NASA and why use I'm asking
you both why use radio why not use like
some kind of laser communication no it
all all light it doesn't make a
difference all has the same speed same
speed has the same speed correct correct
okay so so they built that in even
though you're just sitting right there
in Houston they built in the time delay
absolutely and data size also comes into
play there so it's not just actually
sending something but how large you're
sending so the larger the item so if
you're going to send an audio file or a
video file or even a picture that's
going to take longer than just a typed
message so you have all sorts of
limitations there that you have to sort
of take into account when you're sending
a message so we had communication with
NASA which was delayed for the same
amount of time as our emails but our
emails would also take into account
generally size um so yes we did actually
have communication with we had a
schedule that NASA um you know set up
for us daily we followed that schedule
similar to astronauts on the ISS we
basically check marked you know our
things off the same way they did we
followed a red line um of sort of
timeline and had to do things in a
timely fashion but we also would have to
communicate back to them sometimes or if
we were troubleshooting we'd have to ask
them for help and then we'd have to wait
for we'd either have to troubleshoot it
ourselves or wait for that 22 minutes to
hear back from them for what their
answer was but that's a great way to get
yourself 22 minutes minutes uh if you
want they ask you a question and you
just write back please clarify and then
go have some
coffee just a delay yeah exactly I don't
understand please repeat I didn't quite
get that and then it's like all right
guys you know now it's time for some
Maxwell
out a badly behaved crew would
potentially do that but we would have
never done it
that to you know sort of follow our own
solution while for NASA to let us know
what to do um but but we did become
quite autonomous in our responses and
then in in terms of communicating with
your family as well there was that delay
and also like things like video were
very uh intensely sort of data heavy so
hard to do for more than a minute or two
you really relied on emails and audios
but but you did get to talk to people in
that in that way talk I guess in quotes
and so you know you you spent more time
than you normally did communicating with
people but you actually put a lot into
it and my friends family were amazing in
that they gave me this like richness of
communication that I've referenced a few
times where they really Ste stepped up
to a form that we don't use anymore very
often and communicated with me in this
way and supported me through the mission
and it was it was actually I I ended up
learning things about people that I
didn't know yet so now let me ask you
this and uh this may seem a bit juvenile
but I just got to ask I'm not saying
that it happened I just want to know
what NASA's policy is when it comes to
uh you know a little like romance
happening between the uh crew members uh
are there any guidelines like you find
yourself having some warm feelings about
somebody on the crew what what happens
in something CU you're spending a year
with these people what happens in that
case NASA probably didn't I can't speak
for NASA I can tell you that they did
give us some um information about that
and and one thing for and and and I'm
I'm not sure if I'm supposed to say this
but I will say that um pregnancy was an
out like you did not get pregnant on
this you were not supposed to get
pregnant on this Mission and so I would
imagine given that it was earth-based if
you did get pregnant they would have
removed you from the mission potentially
I'm hypothesizing on this based on
information maybe that I was given um we
were also uh the majority of us were
partnered so that would create some
problems on Earth if you did get warm
fuzzy feelings about someone there so so
I think that um you know again you're in
a professional setting um I'm and and
humans are humans and professional
settings lead to relationships all the
time uh so I'm I'm sure that that could
happen at some point and we were lucky
enough not to deal with anything like
that uh however I I don't know if um you
know once we're in there once once
you're on an analog where you're
pretending to be on Mars you're on Mars
and unless somebody gets hurt they can't
really step in you know they're going to
let the mission go um unless certain
things do happen that they've outlined
ahead of time so I would say luckily we
didn't have those issues but but it
brings up something that I'm actually
really interested in in future thoughts
around analoges and also real missions
which is is it better to send Partners
there's a huge issue with sending
Partners in terms of crew Dynamic but in
terms of human happiness there's
actually a reason to think about sending
families or or or you know units of
people because you you know if you're
going on a three-year Mission a one-year
mission is actually relatively short
Mars is going to be longer and and so
thinking about how we can send couples
may actually be a viable way to keep
people happier although admittedly
that's going to have to be a crew that
comes together beforehand and and
there's there's other inherent dangers
in in crew Dynamic part that's part of
the
research part of you're finding that out
you're finding that out yeah yeah
however I would love to see at least one
uh experiment where that happens where
you have couples because I just want to
see that type back to Mission Control
which is uh can we get a more
comfortable couch sent up here but
um 9 months typically is a Journey to
Mars you were not simulating the Ride To
Mars you were simulating your time on
Mars but getting back to the pregnancy
issue the there was a movie about this
really it was called I think the space
between us okay yeah there was a woman
who got pregnant the night before she
flew to Mars oh and then she's delivers
on arrival to Mars because it's a N9
month mission right and so but NASA had
to keep the whole thing so this was a
child born and no one knew about the
child and so the child grew up on Mars
in 40% gravity and there was a whole
story a secret Mars baby Mars baby I
love it was inter interesting hey Star
Talk fans I don't know if you know this
but the audio version of the podcast
actually posts a week in advance of the
video version and you can get that in
Spotify an apple podcast and most other
podcast Outlets that are out there
multiple ways to ingest all that is
Cosmic on Star Talk how much square
footage did you guys occupy oh 1700
square feet no and no what what I'm done
sorry and you didn't kill each other
four people and you did that was the
habitat that was the habitat we did have
outdoor area that we went out into and
when we mimicked Mars walks um that was
obviously in an outfit where we were you
know mimicking a space suit so we did
actually have a little I call it going
outside I loved going outside but but
our habitat which we were in sometimes
for weeks at a time we didn't go outside
all the time so um yes 1,700 square feet
right so when they go out that's when
they sneak to
McDonald's she didn't say where they
went just oh simulating you're in
Houston girl guys guys I'm going on
another Mars walk how come you always
come back from the Mars walk with
ketchup on your suit what's up so so 1
1700 sare ft you could easily put four
people in that living in a Manhattan
apartment yeah but you get to exit the
apartment multiple times a day which is
why New York city streets are so
crowded because there's a bunch of
people living in these tiny little Mars
Bas it's not an impossible area that I
can imagine putting for people but when
you have the urge to go on a Mars walk
where in Houston do you go are you
walking down down like the street with a
Mars or they have a like a
campus where where this happens So
within rate attached to our habitat we
actually had an area that was covered um
over to and and made to look like Mars
so we actually exited the habitat but
stayed within a defined area and we used
two different mechanisms we used virtual
reality so we actually had goggles and a
treadmill that we got on and we were
able to go and do activities associated
with scientific activities and also
maintenance activities that you would
expect to do um so we actually went
outside but wait when you said goggles
you mean VR goggles VR VR goggles yeah
like a whole a whole VR rig like like
you know with the hand contr whole oh
gotcha gotta and the treadmill is to to
pretend like you were actually walking
great distances you cover ground cover
ground I mean at this point I've walked
miles on Mars yeah oh that's super cool
actually but it does kind of feel like a
little Truman Show it is yeah yeah what
was your what was your sky and your
horizon so in VR the the realism was
excellent like it was the the VR team
was amazing and they put together a
really beautiful package and set of
activities for us that we got to do um
the the non-vr was a little less realism
because obviously you're in a hanger in
Houston that's pretending to be part of
Mars you know in a little area but it
actually wasn't bad like it was really
the activities we were given the builds
that we were given the different
activities that we had to do outside um
combined with the outfit that we wore
did really sort of give you the sense
again without the environmental issues
of Mars so we we were lacking that but
like you know so you can't you're not
going to mimic the gra the difference in
gravity or the difference in an you
could they could they could put a joist
on all of you right to make you just a
little bit lighter yeah they could have
done that you're you're right and and we
did have um aspects of like I think
again what we I always think about
analoges as what are they trying to ask
here they were trying to mimic the the
workload that would stress us out and or
or Tire us out or or be the thing that
actually made you physically or mentally
tired they were not actually you know um
trying out you know equipment for an
actual Mars mission so you know we were
we were addressing very specific things
and that was not in the scope so but
that would be really really cool can
imagine another such Mission analog
mission where it's it's just for the
gravity part yeah and that would be
amazing right to really try that out and
see how that would feel but you would
have to rig both outside and inside it
would be you know resource wise it would
be quite a heavy lift for you'd be about
on Mars you'd be about 60 pounds is that
right yeah that sounds about right yeah
so so you you'd have a very different
different experience I got to get to
Mars as quickly as I can my goodness
that's not how it works J you don't
leave the fat behind now what does Mars
do for man boobs because that's where
I'm really having the problem
uh so um so of course you're in a hanger
so you never exit The Hanger even when
you go out on your walks now I I figured
that out I mean we didn't see anyone we
didn't hear the people outside of like
even though I I mean it's it's the
weirdest feeling right you enter this
habitat and you enter this space that
you're going to be living in for 378
days but and you know that mission
control is in a wall just a few few
doors down from you and yet you don't
see them for a year you don't speak to
them directly for a year you don't hear
them because they're being quiet like
what a what a what an incredible labor
of love they did which is they they
spent a year working in a place where
they had to be bone quiet like just so
quiet so that they didn't actually
interfere with the mission at all wow so
it's a really strange like I mean
analoges are really funny that way
because you have to buy into it on both
sides right the ground has to be the
ground the the mission in in space or or
on a planet has to be the mission and so
it's actually a really it's a very
surreal thing as a scientist I can tell
you that like it's it's a really
interesting thing to see like all of us
drop into it and then like experience it
and everybody had different approaches
and different ways to deal with it but
we all did you know do our best to um to
to do the mission as if it was real so
that we were giving the best possible
data to NASA because that's the key
right why else are you giving a year of
your life up at any point
psychologically do you begin to believe
the cosplay I was going to ask that that
you are involved in I mean
Mar and and and you don't want to
actually exit because that could mess up
your brain do you actually go Daniel de
Lewis on us and just like you know I'm
actually here I'm doing this you know I
am build butcher like I can honestly say
I did not I I wish I could say I did um
I think it would have actually made it a
really interesting experience as well
but but I think you're always it's
almost impossible to turn your brain off
and know that you're not on Earth
there's just a num number of differences
right like that you're not going to
experience similar things so so you are
aware of it but you're
also you're so determined to do the the
mission in the way that it's set up that
I think that you you buy into the
experience in a very deep way like the
fact that we were this unit this team
that was functioning together and that
we had to continue functioning together
to do our work properly and so forth and
and even to think about the work right
like doing science in this setting is
not the way I do science normally right
I do science and I actually produce
particular types of data um here we were
doing making data for the sake of
actually producing data personally so we
were actually making science um that for
want of a better word didn't matter it
was creating data of a different sort
and it was it was kind of a layer that I
you know you're the DAT you had you are
the DAT but really but really I am doing
the science is actually the data me
doing the science is the data and then
you know
yeah and and by the way that was also a
Twilight Zone episode where there is an
actor on a s okay who had such a
miserable home life but his acting role
he had a a joyous family and loving kids
and everything and he just flipped one
day and became the actor that he was
acting wow you know and they took down
the walls of the things what are you
doing that's my
it was the Twilight Zone been up and
down these streets multiple times couple
other things the
the I seem to remember some studies
where they put people in a in a room
where they could live whatever
biorhythms was natural to them I don't
know if that's the right term and when
they did this they found that 24 hours
was not a natural unit of people's um
what do you call circadium of their
rhythms that it was more like 25 and a
half hours oh really so they so when
they were left to their own their
schedule shifted against so it made you
wonder is our life and our 24-hour clock
forcing us away from our what is natural
so did you do Martian days or Earth days
oh that's Martian day is what Martian
day a little the Martian yeah the
Martian day would be a little longer so
it would actually be perfect to that it
would would actually speak to that study
we did not and um I can hypothesize a
few reasons for that number one um when
we do activities on our schedule right
some of them can be autonomous like
cleaning the hab or doing maintenance on
the hab or or whatever um or our
personal time obviously but there are
other activities where we need an expert
on the ground that's actually monitoring
Us in case there's troubleshooting to be
had right so our time and and similar to
anyone that's going to go to space or do
these trips is also going to be
dependent on the crew in Houston or
whatever space station who's actually
monitoring them so we stayed to the the
Earth clock no no I'm not buying that no
no because when we send actual missions
to Mars the folks at JPL right have Mar
two clocks on their wrist they Maring
time and Earth time yeah yeah how many
souls are there at so for Sun Sunday and
so they're forced to match the circadian
rhythms of The Rovers
so so so make make Houston go on your
schedule don't don't well I would say
from the experience that I think that
and and this is just my experience um
not NASA's opinion of this but but I
think having had this experience that
the crews that go to Mars are going to
be far more autonomous than what NASA is
used to like the the time delay means
you can't wait 45 minutes for an answer
most of the time you have to go forward
with your your troubleshooting solution
unless it's something that can be put
off and changed to a later time in the
day after you've heard from them so to
be honest I think that the the the
environment and also the the delay and
the length of time that people are going
to be there I have a feeling it's going
to be a very different style Mission
even than what we're doing right now so
even though I think that they're they're
getting close to trying to actually
answer questions about safety and health
with analoges like this by the time we
go to Mars and actually have people
living there I think they're going to
have like ironed out some of these
things and I have a feeling that
people's biology is going to actually
you know adapt and and re Supreme so in
the end I have a feeling that will
probably be the case um but for our
analog we did stick to Earth time and so
yeah see I would just if you you gonna
put me away for a year you GNA follow my
schedule that's yeah I I am the one
that's up there I would get beligerant
about it exactly yeah right so let me
ask you when you said cleaning the hab
like how do you guys divvy up those
duties is it a group thing where you all
get together like okay so and where do
you put the dust that gets swept in the
corners right yeah and what do you do if
somebody's like kind of a slob just like
Jim how many times you going to leave
your space drawers in the middle of the
dog on H what's up man seriously we're
all a unit here space
draws that a different kind of draw
know so you had to you're
self-sufficient right so food yeah
washing clothes everything so we had
everything so there was um a there was a
free Supply in certain locations so we
could get things delivered to us from
those presup areas we had Depots that
were potentially so there were times
where we retrieved things um from those
re resupply areas that's a simulation of
a what a supply ship would deposit
exactly uncrewed Supply ship right in a
drop good exactly yes um but there were
um instances and there were things where
we just had everything we were going to
have in the hab from the very start and
so right from the get-go for cleaning
supplies we we inventoried them and we
actually we were tremendous in I I will
be braggy about that a little bit and
say like our crew had so much stuff left
over because we really were like very um
resource we we were like so tight on the
resourcing that we actually had
abundance at the end in some of our
items because we just were really strict
and we reused things like crazy we were
like recyclers like you wouldn't believe
so that was kind of awesome but for the
cleaning and and all the different
activities some of them were assigned so
sometimes it would we would go to our
schedule and it would be like you know
commander and and Fen the flight
engineer are out today on Eva so those
would be dictated by our schedule and by
NASA but other things we would NASA will
never call that space walking they have
to say extra vehicular activity uh okay
that you know I feel like just slapping
them okay okay so your fan is out on an
Eva go on okay yes so but other
activities like like cleaning so forth
we would come together as a crew at the
beginning of the week and look at the
activities that we sort of were either
assigned for or thought needed to happen
and then we would divvy them up and so
we had a a pretty fair system where we
kind of kept track of who did what the
last time and and cycled it around so
people didn't get bored but also luckily
I didn't see anybody in their space GIS
so yay for me that was great um that
would have been not not good and also
those are not normal men okay
[Music]
but we were men left to themselves they
just you know Dro their pants walk
around in underwear all day listen we
will seek our lowest common denominator
of
existence it's that's that's who we are
it doesn't make a difference you know my
mother said what to me once as she came
into my room she was like when are you
going to clean this room and I went why
is the question you're asking about
about time I'm talking about reason so
yeah we don't we don't see a reason all
right so we always hear about these
tasks that everybody has to perform as
particularly if you're doing science
experiments it's timed or all right what
about movie night I mean do you how how
does what what's what do you do for
entertainment wow yeah so the crew was
um we had a little bit of pre-loading so
a we met each other during evaluation
weeks when they were choosing the crew
pre-loading that's when you drink before
you go out that's preing pregaming alol
pregaming yes no no pregaming on this
Mission no alcohol on this mission
pre-loading is probably a better term
than pre than pregame yeah pre yeah
pre-loaded pre-loaded I got hey man
I'mma tell you my I'm pre-loading I'm
ready to go we should start that right
now it should be yeah we do pre pre
pre-loading forget pregaming we're
pre-loading okay we interrupted go on no
that's okay uh so we were really uh
collaborative at getting together before
the mission um we had a limited amount
of data that we were each allowed to
bring in and a limited amount of
personal items so there was a weight
limit to our personal items we actually
made sure that there was very little
redundancy um in both the movies we
brought in the music we brought in the
books etc etc so we we really did
actually combine all of our resources
including like if you wanted to do a
Christmas or or a holiday celebration
one person brought in something that
would be appropriate but not all of us
right so we were really trying to like
actually do that so we we had a really
big movie selection in our personal data
um and we watched I don't even know how
many of them there were but we watched
like it seemed like every Marvel movie
we actually had a checklist that we went
off so that was like for a did you watch
the movie The
Martian we we did not watch The Martian
but I I had read the book already and
one person read the book while we were
in okay okay all right just just for
just because I have to say this uh Andy
Weir is a friend of our show and we've
uh we've had him as a guest yes and he
handed me the highest compliment I ever
received which was because he's an
engineer turn novelist he said Neil when
I was writing the Martian putting all
the good science in it he said he
imagined I was looking over his shoulder
right yeah well cuz he knows at at some
point you would have been trash in the
movie he didn't want me tweeting about
it at some point you would have been
like uh clearly this is
not physically possible so they don't
let you watch the movie Titanic on ocean
liners you didn't watch Maran on your
Mars Mars so so when you say we didn't
but we did we did watch um there's
there's a TV show about Mars that we did
actually watch uh I'm blanking on the
name right now but um but we did what is
it called it's it's a it's like a NASA
it's like a alternate universe NASA oh
yeah that's For All Mankind yes for all
man that's where the Russians got to the
Russians got to the Moon first and then
of course we were behind on everything
including getting women into the space
program the whole deal not a bad Not a
Bad series actually yeah I mean I think
they bumped women and people of color up
because of the Russians so it really
actually did it did us some good frankly
wom women about to go to space way
earlier um in the alternate universe so
that was I have a you know a solid state
disc and I have like 300 movies on it
what do you mean you're limited in how
many movies you can bring or how many
books why would there be any paper at
all we live in the digital era so sorry
I was talking about uh ebooks so we but
we we did have a data size limit so
there was a uh a data size that they
gave us which was all we could bring
personally um I don't have an answer for
that that I can give because they don't
want you spending all your time watching
movies it's real simple it's the same
reason you do it with your
kids you limit the time limit the time
that they are able to be on their device
all right so I can imagine though that
you in any Mission the majority of data
you want to go to Mission priority items
right so the items that are going to
support the missions objectives the
stuff for personal is limited in that
it's going to be this is what you
personally can bring in the same way
that the uh limit of weight so how many
clothes you can bring how many personal
items you can bring can you bring a com
guitar versus a a keyboard you know if
you really love music versus I I
actually needle pointed so I brought
like sewing items and needle pointed
everything I could possibly think of to
do with the the the mission including
the Chapo logo which is right behind me
yeah a guitar you get to bring but you
can only play it in your room stop don't
subject the rest of us to your awful
guitar playing unless she's unless
you're really good okay yeah I went to
summer camp for two weeks and there was
no television no phone no nothing allow
and one guy bought a guitar and I swear
I wanted to kill this dude after two
weeks cuz every night it was him trying
to very poorly figure out a rendition of
whatever he was playing oh was terrible
terrible just cuz you had a bad
experience doesn't mean everybody else
has got to follow that that's I'm just
trying to protect you have you ever
wanted one of your questions on the
universe answered we all have questions
about the universe black holes to
quazars quantum entanglement wormholes
there is no end to the depths of cosmic
curiosity well the entry level of
patreon membership with Star Talk gets
you just that I think it starts at $5 a
month you have access to the question
line that reaches our Cosmic query
programming and not only that we produce
a special Cosmic
queries installment just for patreon
members if you weren't the director of
the Hayden planetarium what do you think
you would be doing okay but this have to
be another Universe it wouldn't happen
in this universe okay I be I'd be a a a
songwriter for Broadway musicals oh so
that's the entry level and the perks
ascend from there uh there's a level in
fact where we send you a an autographed
copy of one of my latest books uh right
now it's Star Messenger Cosmic
perspectives on civilization and it's
signed with my fancy fountain pen with
purple ink so I invite you to just check
Che the link below and all of that money
goes to our ability to experiment with
new ways of bringing the universe down
to earth so thank you for those who have
already joined and we welcome others to
participate in this Grand Adventure of
what it is to bring the universe down to
earth as always keep looking up for me
just speaking as a as a uh a scientist
thinking about this
it's especially interesting M if
something
unforeseen happens oh Martian bear what
a martian bear invades the compound
something
unimagined some some new virus that only
exists if four people are in the same
airspace for a year exactly some you
find an extra set of footprints leading
around the back of the habitat what's
that right then it's like like okay we
did this experiment to explore the
limits of what we that's any experiment
taken to the limits is going to discover
stuff oh that's cool so that's the whole
point yeah okay why do we build James
web to go where we've never seen before
and so you expect to discover stuff
we've never seen what have you
discovered either anticipated or not or
did and did they throw you a curve like
did they throw something in there did
they throw something in there to like
you know kind of throw you guys off
kilter oh that would have been good so I
do want to point out that the experiment
is not over there's two more missions
planned so four people so I'm a I'm a
stem cell biologist I get to work with
hundreds of millions of cells when I do
my experiments right I make I make
different cell types and tissues out of
human stem cells so I could make a heart
cell or a set of heart cells that would
communicate with each other I can we
know you created yourself for this
interview exactly right I could well
there's some issues with that you're
accumulation of stem cells
turned into the commander the Kelly
clone that's who we're talking to I will
say that even though four people can
create a ton of data over a year it's
still only four people so the additional
missions are going to add a lot of
complexity to the the data set and it so
it's not complete yet um and so I I
can't really speak to exactly what we
found yet because it's a very long-term
experiment and and it makes me grateful
that I'm a stem cell biologist because I
get much more immediate answers than
these people studying us to because
they're going to have to wait for years
um but I think that there were um some
really interesting findings about you
know sort of how we interacted I think
that the crew was and the team on the
ground was really inspired by some of
the solutions we came up with to some of
the things that did happen to us I'm
being a little bit vague because of the
additional missions we can't really
actually we don't want to to tweak them
or give them too much um insight into
what's going to happen so that they're
not actually uh you know so that they
remain comparable to us right prot
Integrity of the of the setup exactly
but but who analyzes the data that you
produce about you doing this work
because it sounds to me like a lot of
the information that you are gathering
would be data to be analyzed by uh
social scientists psychologists
behavioral scientist do they have those
at Nasa no no you publish it and then
everybody sees oh how work is that so
you just But to answer your question
they do so they they had a plethora of
people at Nasa working on this and and a
tremendous amount of groups came
together to integrate the study and
design it that way so we had people
thinking about exercise we had people
thinking about the the Team Dynamics we
had people thinking about the food uh
that we were eating um we had biological
uh sampling throughout the mission so
the data they collected was actually
vast and across many different types of
data and so each group came together and
they will actually integrate that at the
end when they when they can analyze all
of the the uh the people in the C she
said she said biological S I think they
just collecting her
poop I'm I'm afraid that's true okay wow
so let me ask you uh before we thrilled
and I'll just I'll just tell you guys
because you seem to like to talk about
it I am thrilled to not be pooping into
a container anymore okay okay yeah I
gotta tell you I uh I'm
not I think I would uh rather enjoy the
experience I'm just saying I've never I
going into space with you so you know
what the third mission still needs
people I think the second mission might
be closed but you could be ready to
apply for that third mission and be a
Mars analog astronaut just like me now I
have to put on my physicist hat and ask
you it's my my last I think we run out
of time here my physicist hat is over
the 370
days what was your energy
source because that would be responsible
for imbuing the food with energy if you
grew your own food for your for so for
your own nourishment for your own warmth
for your own if you're heating food that
energy has to come from somewhere right
and so did you have solar panels out
front the way you have would might have
on Mars and were they only operating 12
hours a day and at Mars the sun is like
you know half as Intense or something
it's farther back farther back so how
what was your energy budget cuz the buck
stops at
right exactly I don't know how much I
can answer about that but I can tell you
that uh I did clean a lot of solar
panels during maintenance so we
definitely did have an aspect of that
built into the activities we did just to
be clear so on Mars with there's a lot
of dust storms so dust can just land on
your solar panels and so you dust it's
like like the UMP at the home plate
right you got you got to get out there
and clean those panels so yeah so that
that's a very natural thing you'd have
to do on Mars yeah okay go on yes and
and and similarly in terms of uh
resourcing and and how that was how that
functioned that was part of the
experimental design and I don't know if
I can actually disclose it but in each
case we were given limitations for
certain things that the mission was
interested in and so that was something
that they measured throughout the
mission and and that will probably be
the some of the items that we actually
are unblinded to when we actually see
the final data set from all three
missions so there is some element to
that that is a little bit uh on the the
low down just so that we don't actually
disclose much but I think I just heard
uh NASA has a secret energy source that
the rest of us are not privy to oh who
knew look look at that so all of us
suckers are out here burning fossil
fuels while NASA is luxuriating in their
own special energy
source so another thing just to clarify
since this was not a mission to see if
you could generate your own food this
your module was pre-loaded with food
with a Year's worth of food so we had
food basically that's the same as what's
on the ISS we had dehydrated food and we
had shelf stable food but we did get to
grow crops for certain parts of the
mission 1700 square
feet how could you use the word
crops okay well these are potted plants
right what now what when when you're in
uh when you when you haven't had fresh
vegetables for six months then it feels
like a crop I gotta because man you are
happy to eat those so I would say um yes
we did we did have a very small scale uh
grow area and we were able to supplement
with that um but I think the idea being
that in any Mission you hope to always
supplement for people with fresh
vegetables and and and fruits and so
forth because you could not have lived
off of that you could not have lived off
of that no and and if it f for any
reason right if if you ever had like a a
virus come through or fungus or
something like that come through if
anything a bacteria anything that took
your plants down and you were relying on
them you would be hosed right so any any
mission that goes to Mars or any place
Interstellar right a blight hits the
crops yeah yeah so obviously you're
always going to have to and NASA that's
I think one of the reasons that NASA
loves analoges is that you get ready for
every event like eventual problem right
lets you test out and and practice in a
safer space where you're not going to
hurt people what's going to happen so
that when they actually get there and I
think that Chris hafeld has said this
really nicely that like analoges just
really they make your muscle stronger in
these areas and then you actually know
what to do when you're there right and
that's that's not for the people that
are pretending to be on Mars it's for
NASA who's actually you know preparing
that way too so they're getting all this
data on how to keep us healthy but
they're also actually testing how to
keep teams happy and how to grow food
and and do that safely and so forth so
there's really cool aspects to it even
though there's aspects that are like you
know as you say it's a tradeoff and and
and you do have to think about those
resources so I think I always want to
always ask people who ask me that
question like where do you think the
best money is for an analog uh Mission
and what what is like the best bang for
our buck how can we actually send people
to these places as safely as possible to
keep the public happy because we don't
want to hurt people but we actually have
to take risk to to get to you know
places like Mars oh it's it's I think
it's a a tremendous exercise in Risk
Management I mean it's so so worth it
and NASA's been very good about that
ever since its found its founding years
by the way you mentioned Chris Hatfield
the Canadian astronaut probably the most
famous Canadian astronaut and he's been
a guest on Star Talk yes he has yeah
yeah we even had him play his guitar as
he did in space and say as I said leave
your guitar at
home I'm not even GNA lie
so so Kelly we gota we gota call it
quits there uh this this been a delight
to have you on here and when you get all
when all three missions are done you're
not going to repeat right no although I
would love to do like a different form
like I'd like to go to Antarctica next
and like try an analog there because
like that's a different kind of analog
and it would be super cool you are the
only person I have ever heard in my life
say I'd love to spend a year in
Antarctica you're cut from a different
JY just got the right amount of crazy
I'm tell you I'm glad you're on our
side we are reminded here that while you
can read about a discovery especially if
it involves humans achieving some goal
that has been set forth by others be it
the general population or governments or
whatever and you can read the you can
celebrate the results but somewhere in
there homework was done there were
people who came before scientists
engineers uh test subjects and you don't
always read about them you don't always
read about the hard work that went in to
prep the final steps that are taken by
those who get all the media attention
and so it's reminds me of how
fundamental that is if you're going to
move the frontier but you want to do it
sensibly and safely there are these
unsung heroes who actually empowered
that in the first place and I I try to
never lose sight of that yeah we had
Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldren walk down
on the moon anytime I've said that I've
said they're not the only ones who
walked on the moon so did 10,000
scientists and engineers and uh you know
200 million taxpayers we all walked on
the moon that day so uh just delighted
to hear about these early steps and to
just get a Taste of how you make that
sausage so that it tastes good in the
end uh Commander Kelly thanks for being
a guest on Star talk thank you so much
it was a real honor to be here and I
just want to give a shout out to my crew
and also the chapia ground team who were
an amazing group of people that put this
experiment on the ground team whose
schedule you
matched we we'll we'll start a movement
so that that doesn't happen in the
future yes exactly
thank you because you know it only takes
a month to go like completely out ofy
out of cycle with you know if you're off
by like 30 minutes right yeah yeah a
month your 12 hours yeah so yeah anyhow
we're good here again uh Commander Kelly
thanks for being a guest thank you so
much chuck always good to have you man
always a pleasure this has been Star
Talk Neil degrass Tyson as always
bidding you to keep looking up
[Music]